Added initial tables (#1)
turbot/steampipe-plugin-consul: docs/index.md

---
organization: Turbot
category: ["software development"]
icon_url: "/images/plugins/turbot/consul.svg"
brand_color: "#E03875"
display_name: "Consul"
short_name: "consul"
description: "Steampipe plugin to query nodes, acls, services and more from Consul."
og_description: "Query Consul with SQL! Open source CLI. No DB required."
og_image: "/images/plugins/turbot/consul-social-graphic.png"
---

# Consul + Steampipe

[Consul](https://www.consul.io/) is a service networking solution to automate network configurations, discover services, and enable secure connectivity across any cloud or runtime.

[Steampipe](https://steampipe.io) is an open source CLI to instantly query cloud APIs using SQL.

List your Consul services:

```sql
select
  service_id,

>   service_name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  service_name,
```

  node,
  address,
  datacenter,
  namespace
from
  consul_service;
```

```
+------------+--------+---------------+---------------------------------+-----------+
| service_id | node   | address       | datacenter                      | namespace |
+------------+--------+---------------+---------------------------------+-----------+
| consul     | consul | 172.25.34.191 | consul-quickstart-1683117303883 | default   |

> +------------+--------+---------------+---------------------------------+-----------+

Reviewer: please re-run the query to get the correct output

  # API will execute with default partition if this parameter is not set.
  # Can also be set with the CONSUL_PARTITION environment variable.
  # partition = "default"
}
```

## Configuring Consul Credentials

You may specify the Address to authenticate:

- `address`: The address of the consul server.

```hcl
connection "consul" {
  plugin  = "consul"
  address = "http://52.14.112.248:8500"
}
```

or you may specify the Address and Token to authenticate:

- `address`: The address of the consul server.
- `token`: The ACL token.

```hcl
connection "consul" {
  plugin  = "consul"
  address = "http://52.14.112.248:8500"
  token   = "c178b810-8b18-6f38-016f-725ddec5d58"
}
```

or if you are using consul enterprise then you may specify the Address, Token, namespace and partition to authenticate:

- `address`: The address of the consul server.
- `token`: The ACL token.
- `namespace`: The consul namespace.
- `partition`: The consul partition.

```hcl
connection "consul" {
  plugin    = "consul"
  address   = "http://52.14.112.248:8500"
  token     = "c178b810-8b18-6f38-016f-725ddec5d58"
  namespace = '*'
  partition = 'default'
}
```

or through environment variables

> The Consul plugin will use the Consul environment variable to obtain credentials **only if the `address`,`token`, `namespace` and `partition` is not specified** in the connection:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can also use the standard Consul environment variable to obtain credentials **only if the `address`, `token`, `namespace`, and `partition` is not specified** in the connection:
```

```sh

> export CONSUL_HTTP_ADDR="http://18.118.144.168:4646"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export CONSUL_HTTP_ADDR=http://18.118.144.168:4646
```

> export CONSUL_NAMESPACE="*"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export CONSUL_NAMESPACE=*
```

> export CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN="c178b810-8b18-6f38-016f-725ddec5d58"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN=c178b810-8b18-6f38-016f-725ddec5d58
```

> export CONSUL_PARTITION="default"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export CONSUL_PARTITION=default
```
